the Israeli military says it has killed
caught numerous Palestinian militants in
Fierce fighting in the southern Gaza
City of konas the anabat hostilities
came a day after the international court
of justice in the ha ordered Israel to
do everything in its power to prevent
genocide in the Gaza Strip now according
to the World Health Organization
hospitals there are running out of f
fuel food and supplies Israel says it's
fighting to destroy Hamas which several
States consider a terrorist
organization
a hospital on the brink of collapse
overcrowded with injured patients the
situation in Han Yunis is growing
increasingly
desperate the trauma W is packed wounded
people here are being treated on a
florish splash with
blood most injured people coming to the
hospital are from schools and
residential
areas we're not trying to treat them
anymore we're just trying to keep them
alive
Israeli forces have advanced deeper into
hunis in recent days gazan Health
officials say dozens of people have been
killed in the fighting which has come
very close to the
hospital there's no milk formula no
doctors to treat the patients no food or
medication for
children many here had hoped for things
to take a different turn on Friday when
the United Nations Top Court ruled on a
case against Israel's offensive in
Gaza a majority of the judges called on
Israel to protect civilians and allow
the entry of desperately needed
humanitarian Aid into the strip is the
case the court is acutely aware of the
extent of the human tragedy that is
unfolding in the region and is deeply
concerned about the continuing loss of
life and human
suffering but the judges stopped short
of ordering the Urgent request of South
Africa which had brought the case
against Israel an immediate
ceasefire a ruling on South Africa's
allegation that Israel is committing
genocide against Palestinians in Gaza
will likely Take
Years Palestinians broadly welcomed
Friday's
ruling but it offered no respite for the
people of
Gaza Jonathan tricks is chief of
communication and advoc advocacy for
Unicef in the Palestinian territories he
joins us from Rafa in southern Gaza
thank you for being with us Mr cricks we
know that more than half of gaza's
population is in Rafa right now what are
the conditions you're seeing
there well the the conditions are
absolutely devastating so wherever you
look you see thousands and thousands of
makeshift tents and uh with many many
children living in them they don't have
access to enough water they don't have
food people are getting very hungry and
and and desperate they don't have even
hygiene and sanitation there is
sometimes only one toilet for 500 or 700
people sometimes and so this is for us a
very big concern because the the the mix
between the lack of water and the poor
uh uh sanitary condition I conditions
are are really a terrible recipe for the
spread of illnesses like chronic
diarrhea for example so so the situation
here is very dramatic and what I have
seen and what I have heard in terms of
stories is stories of sorrow and and
loss we can see even now you're speaking
to us from a darkened room I imagine
that is an impact of the electricity
supplies being cut as well now we know
that the icj has urged organizations
like yours to be allowed humanitarian
access to Gaza do you expect this to
help with your
work well it is absolutely needed that
the humanitarian Aid is reaching the
children and the most vulnerable people
wherever they are but we are facing
issues our Aid is coming in and I
attended several uh food distribution we
we went to a small community where we
also distributed winter clothes and
cover because as I speak to you it's 10
degrees out and the children that I have
met they have literally nothing to to
you know to keep them warm so it is
absolutely crucial to have that Aid
being delivered but many challenges are
you know on our way one is the security
with the intensity of of the bombing
it's extremely difficult to reach the
north of the Gast STP for example we
have issues when it comes to
communication limited cell n Network we
cannot coordinate easily with our
partners and then there is not enough
trucks and fuel to run those trucks to
to to reach the people in need so the
the the aid is being delivered but we
have to understand that when we have 1.3
million people here in Rafa in so such a
small stretch of land they cannot leave
on humanitarian Aid alone and what what
is needed is more commercial trucks for
example to to come in with fruits and
vegetables because the the the prices of
food has skyrocketed four or five times
the the the prices pre crisis before
this war so if if that doesn't happen we
are very very worried that severe cases
of malnutrition will take place and
children might
starve Jonathan cricks with the UNICEF
reporting talking to us from Rafa in
southern Gaza thank you so
much thank you very much now States
including the US UK and Canada have
halted funding for the UN Agency for
Palestine refugees that's after it
emerged that some of the agency staffers
were involved in the October 7th Terror
attacks by Hamas on Israel that's an
allegation by Israel now the agency unra
said it had fired the workers under
suspicion and that an investigation was
underway the US was through Lea
organization's biggest Financial backup
the agency has previously said its
ability to deliver Aid to Gaza is on the
verge of
collapse more I'm joined Now by Shaya Lo
she's a Communications adviser for the
Norwegian Refugee Council and joins us
from Jerusalem now sha good to see you
again what impact do you believe this
ruling will have on the work of
humanitarian organizations such as your
own well part of the ruling called for
Israel to enable the provision of of
assistance needed to meet the basic
needs for survival of the Palestinian
population under its control we are
hopeful that that Israel and and
countries putting pressure on Israel
will will allow for the provision of
additional Aid to enter Israel to excuse
me to enter Gaza because at this point
the amount of Aid that is entering is
wholly insufficient to meet the
tremendous needs that we've seen over
the last 16 weeks of of hostilities uh
the situation continues to grow more
desperate and dire by the day
Palestinians north of Rafa in Kan Yunis
in the middle area in Gaza City and in
Northern Gaza are struggling to find
basic necessities people are are uh are
resorting to eating animal fodder in
order to stay alive in some of these
places uh we are in addition to this we
still need to continue pushing for a
permanent sustained ceasefire this is
the only way to put an end to the death
Devastation the killing the destruction
in Gaza and to allow the 2.3 million
Palestinian civilians living there the
chance to rebuild their lives and start
to
recover I want to bring up something
else because several countries have
suspended their donations to the un's
agency for Palestinian refugees
allegations that unra employees were
involved in the October 7th terror
attack now unra is gaza's largest Aid
agency how is this Scandal and its
Fallout which we're just now beginning
to see likely to affect gazin who depend
on Aid to
survive my understanding is that as soon
as unwa heard of the allegations against
its employees it immediately fired those
employees that's been reported in the
press the situation in Gaza is so dire
Palestinians need access to Aid however
it can come Ona as of now has been
providing about 80% of the aid and
assistance to Palestinians the the vast
majority of those internally displaced
are seeking shelter at unaa facilities
to cut off Aid means to to or to cut off
funding to unaa would mean to prevent
aid from reaching those people so
desperately in need sha low
Communications adviser for the
humanitarian organization Norwegian
Refugee Council always great to get your
view of things thank you so much for
your
time thank
you and we can get some analysis now
from Sharon W she's a professor of
international law at the American
University of Paris where she directs
the Justice lab good to have you on DW
now opinions are divided on this ruling
what do you make of the icj's
orders uh yes so first of all I think
it's a very important case because it's
the first time that Israel is on trial
on an international forum and uh the
international court of justice is a very
respected court so uh of course of
course it's not Amnesty International
you know it's not an NGO it's a very
serious very conservative court so when
the court is saying something uh it
means that it's not a political
statement it is a legal statement and I
think what the court is saying here is
very strong so it's true it did not
order to stop the military operation but
uh this was not expected that he will
say that he will uh uh say this what the
court is saying is that it is possible
it is possible uh that we have uh a
commission of genocide is not deciding
on this but he is requesting from Israel
uh to prevent any act that could uh uh
amount to breaching its obligation with
the Geneva Convention and it is request
to allow humanitarian assistant uh as
well um as well any prevention of this
kind of act and I wanted just to add
about this that uh the value is huge
because we have the US judge the German
judge all the judges uh were uh in the
opinion of this uh and even the ad hoc
Israeli judge judge Barack uh was
supporting two of this provisional
measure so I think it is a very strong
judicial decision the United Nations
let's talk about the
icj's um kind of power in this because
the court says it trusts Israel will
comply with the orders but it lacks the
power to actually enforce them doesn't
it yeah okay so you know about power is
always the question what do we expect
from a court to do right uh I mean
especially when we think about the
international legal orders so of course
the court is not the police it's not a
political actor it is a court and we
know well that in the international
legal order international law and
politic are very much inter uh very much
interconnected uh but this means now
that political forces could put pressure
on Israel and we already have seen the
European Union stating declaring
immediately after that Israel has to
comply uh with this and even within
Israel uh the voices are very taking
very seriously this because Israel is
committing to the genocide convention
because of its own historical background
right they were victim to the genocide
convention uh so of course uh um now it
is up the politics but we have a legal
decision saying what it says which is
very strong that was Sharon wild
professor of international law thank you
so much for your
announces